[DOCS] Adds GET, GET stats and DELETE inference APIs (#50224)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/ml/df-analytics/apis/get-trained-model-stats.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]

> [testenv="platinum"]

Reviewer: this is `basic` licensed, if that makes any difference.

[[get-inference-stats]]
=== Get trained model statistics API
[subs="attributes"]
++++
<titleabbrev>Get trained model stats</titleabbrev>
++++

> Retrieves usage information for trained {dfanalytics} models.

Reviewer: Similar to above, these are not strictly `dfanalytics` models.

experimental[]

[[ml-get-inference-stats-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET _ml/inference/_stats` +

`GET _ml/inference/_all/_stats` +

`GET _ml/inference/<model_id>/_stats` +

`GET _ml/inference/<model_id>,<model_id_2>/_stats` +

`GET _ml/inference/<model_id_pattern*>,<model_id_2>/_stats`

[[ml-get-inference-stats-prereq]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* You must have `monitor_ml` privilege to use this API. For more information, 
see <<security-privileges>> and <<built-in-roles>>.

[[ml-get-inference-stats-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

> You can get iusage nformation for multiple trained models in a single API 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get usage information for multiple trained models in a single API 
```
